MY LANGUAGE OF PROFICIENCY IS C# AND IN THE CASE OF THESE EXERCISES ITS JavaScript

Goals:
Build REST APIs using Python 
Perform data analysis and visualization using Python
Understand Python for AI/automation tasks (basic machine learning + scripting)
2. Structured Learning Journey Plan (Python)
Phase 1: Python Fundamentals

Prerequisites:

Basic programming knowledge (variables, loops, functions in C#)

Learning Steps:

Learn Python syntax (indentation, variables, data types)
Practice control structures (if, loops, match)
Learn functions and modules
Understand lists, dictionaries, tuples
File handling basics

Verification Activities:

Convert a simple C# console program into Python
Write a program that reads a file and counts words
Build a small calculator CLI app
 Phase 2: Object-Oriented Programming in Python

Prerequisites:

Comfortable with basic Python syntax

Learning Steps:

Classes and objects in Python
Constructors (__init__)
Inheritance and polymorphism
Encapsulation and properties
Difference between Python OOP and C# OOP

Verification Activities:

Create a simple “Bank Account” class system
Build a student management system
Convert a C# class-based project into Python
Phase 3: Web Development (REST APIs)

Prerequisites:

OOP + basic Python knowledge

Learning Steps:

Learn HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE)
Understand REST API structure
Learn Flask or FastAPI framework
Work with JSON responses
Connect to a simple database (SQLite)

Verification Activities:

Build a basic to-do API
Create a user registration/login API
Test endpoints using Postman
 Phase 4: Data + Automation / Intro to AI

Prerequisites:

Comfortable building APIs and Python OOP

Learning Steps:

Learn Pandas for data analysis
Learn Matplotlib for visualization
Automate simple tasks (file renaming, scraping basics)
Intro to machine learning (scikit-learn basics)

Verification Activities:

Analyze a CSV dataset and create graphs
Build a simple data dashboard
Create a basic prediction model (e.g. house price prediction)


STEP 1:
I'm currently proficient in C# and want to learn Python.

Before diving into code:

What are the key philosophical differences between C# and Python?
What problems was Python designed to solve compared to C#?
What mental models should I adjust coming from C#?
What are common misconceptions C# developers have about Python?

STEP 2:
How functions are implemented in Python
How they compare to methods in C# (static and instance methods)
The key syntax and structures I need to understand (def, return, parameters, indentation rules)
Common patterns and best practices when writing functions in Python

STEP 3:
Could you guide me through creating a simple example, such as a basic calculator function that adds two numbers and returns the result?

Please explain each part of the syntax, especially:

How Python function definitions differ from C# methods
How parameters and return values work in Python vs C#
Why Python uses indentation instead of braces
Any key mental shifts I need to make coming from C#

STEP 4:
I've created this Python implementation:

def add_numbers(a, b):
    result = a + b
    return result


print(add_numbers(5, 3))

Could you:

Verify if I've followed Python best practices?
Explain any improvements I should make?
Suggest what I should learn next?
Point out any C# habits that might be showing in my code?

AI answered that i have followed python rules and syntax correctly

